1.	Introduction
The Digital Revolution has given birth to new high-quality international and cross-cultural education initiatives which in turn has played an important role in creating major global challenges in higher education. It is now believed to introduce a new vision regarding education and pedagogical institution and the internationalisation of higher education institutions by bringing together geographically distant learners through telecollaboration.
Since international physical mobility is not feasible for all the students, it is believed that including international activities in higher education  institutions with the help of virtual exchange can yield intercultural and global knowledge results more than mobility alone (De Wit, Hunter, Egron-Polak, & Howard, 2015; Soria & Troisi, 2014; Ward, 2016. cited in Ruther et al., 2021). In fact, those internationalization strategies contribute to students’ digital skills (e.g., communication, technology, and collaboration) and intercultural competence growth (Wood, 2019. cited in Ruther, 2021). 
For instance, recently, telecollaborative partnerships and projects like Collaborative Online International Learning (COIL) and UNICollaboration (The European Commission, 2016) and more recently E-LIVE 2022-2024 project, begun to address the pedagogical institutionalization of telecollaboration projects by bringing together the digital pedagogical innovation with the social needs to enhance inclusive intercultural communicative competence development and digital literacies.
Telecollaboration as defined by Belz (2003) is an “institutionalized, electronically mediated intercultural communication under the guidance of a languacultural expert (that is, a teacher) for the purposes of foreign language learning and the development of intercultural competence” (p. 2). It has been shown to be conductive to the development of target language pragmatic competence. 
It is true that digital technologies may offer new opportunities and resources for people who use them;  however, “online communication is as real as offline interaction” (Locher, 2010). That is to say, the communicative acts that are performed by interlocutors and their interpretation are the same online as they are offline (Scott, 2022). Hence, thanks to the technological tools of online environments language learners in the second or foreign language context have the opportunity to be in contact with target language speakers (English in our case) and this creates an authentic context for interaction with real language use.
Therefore, when analyzing interactions, language can no longer be thought as the primary mode of communication because when we interact, the message is transmitted through a set of linguistic and para-linguistic modes of communication. Gestures body language and facial expressions can be used to communicate emotions and attitudes, these semiotic resources convey strong pragmatic meaning and they can even change the interpretation of a message by replacing lexical items (Herring, 2018), adding information to confirm the utterance or to contrast it (Scott, 2022), or mitigating the force of a speech act to save the face of the addressee (illocutionary force indicator). As an example, a worried face can be used to mitigate the force of a request.
Hence, the present study aims at demonstrating the usefulness of the multimodal pragmatic approach by combining concepts from pragmatics with those from social semiotic theory (Halliday 1978, 1985, Halliday and Matthiessen 2004) to assess EFL learners’ pragmatic competence in online environments. In this case, our focus is not just on language, but rather on language in operation with visual, actional and other multimodal resources in online context.
